# HTML

Basic HTML document structure

yeah,I know most the theory behind it,so i'll be just noting down whatever I feel is new.

nvm,lol.I'm going to learn about HTML parsing,it's much interesting.


>Note:HTML is parsed through an unconventional parser.

### HTML Parsing:

So,HTML parsing means the analysis and conversion of a program from an internal format into a format that a runtime environment can actually run. 

> Definition from:[MDN Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Parse)

What a HTML parser does is that :it finds non-blocking resources such as an image,and the resources will be requested by the browser.
But the HTML continues parsing.

> #### Parsing is only stopped when the script tags without async or defer are encoutnered.

So,HTML is usually parsed quicker and better when all the opening tags have their corresponding closing tags.
But not always is there is the case of it happening.

### For CSS parsing:
the CSS is parsed into CSS Object Model and the browser creates a render tree from both Datastructure for layout and painting generated from CSS to be able to paint the content to the screen.


### Parsing process

So,basically a HTML string in passing into the parser,for which the parser.

Actually,the parser is a combination of Lexical Analysis and Syntactic Analysis.

So basically:<br>

- Lexical Analysis:
    It analysis the given string and splits the string into certain tokens that have a certain meaning.
    For example,for the html:
        `<h1> Hello </h1>`
        
    - `<h1>`
    - `</h1>`
    - `Hello`

    <br>
    are unique tokens generated by the lexer.

- Syntactic analysis:
    It checks if the tokens form a syntactically correct expression,this is usually done with reference to context free grammer(in case of HTML)

- Semantic parsing:
    It is the process of computing with the parsed data to create the required result.


Day-2 result:

<iframe src="./hello.html" height=400 width=400>

